# Hybrid-Learning-Aided-Inactive-Constraints-Filtering-Algorithm-to-Enhance-AC-OPF-Solution-Time
Abstract—The Optimal power flow (OPF) problem contains many constraints. However, equality constraints along with a limited set of active inequality constraints encompass sufficient information to determine the problem’s feasible space. In this paper, a hybrid supervised regression-classification learning-based algorithm is proposed to identify active and inactive sets of inequality constraints of AC OPF solely based on nodal power demand information. The proposed algorithm is structured using several classifiers and regression learners. The combination of classifiers with regression learners enhances the accuracy of active/inactive constraints identification procedure. The proposed algorithm modifies the OPF feasible space rather than a direct mapping of OPF results from demand. Inactive constraints are removed from the design space to construct a truncated AC OPF. This truncated optimization problem can be solved faster than the original problem with less computational resources. Numerical results on several test systems show the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm for predicting active and inactive constraints and constructing a truncated AC OPF. We have posted our code for all simulations on arxiv and have uploaded the data used in numerical studies to IEEE DataPort as an open access dataset. 
**Keywords—Optimal power flow, machine learning, active constraint identification.**
